Welcome to the World Game, scaling the hackerspaces and making a creative economy.  Pangaia comes from Buckminster Fuller's idea of a Game society plays to mend the world and James Lovelock's theory of Earth as a self-organizing system (Gaia Hypothesis).

We're here quietly developing the world's next great economic and information revolution.  We have the ENTIRE decentralized community thing worked out.  It will create something like Minsky's Society of Mind involving many semi-autonomous agents spawning unanticipated "meta"-patterns of new order....

* Utilizing the power and wisdom of *the crowd* (given the right tools and incentives), we are
* creating a distributed *peer-to-peer* platform for trading creative value (a new economic system),
* while allocating decision-making authority fairly and efficiently (a new form of *self-organizing governance*)
* using a stellar theoretical *3d model* for organizing people and projects (which we claim is provably optimal)
* in a way that inspires even *greater* participation (a la Reed's Law).

...ultimately to create a beautiful world.  If you're looking to start now, start with the working paper version (here or wiki.hackerspaces.org/PangaiaWorldGame) and implement the BusinessPlan.  The paper version is fully FUNctional and will demonstraate the principles of "self-organization".  It is a LARP (a live-action role-playing game) that creates it`s own currency as you go, rewarding you for generating community value.  The Business Plan is to give you ideas on how to start organizing and filling whatever space you have.

Check the wiki for more.  Remember:  it only takes an empty space and a corkboard to make things HAPPEN!  If you're looking for the platform for creating an application developer and data lover's nirvana, check out the PositionOS project under this user.  This project is now strictly limited to hackerspaces and decentralized project management.  See the "pangaia notes" on the wiki for the theory behind the alternative currency system.

If you use this system to manage your space, please send a picture of your board to the author and approximately how much currency has been made, so it can be tracked in the overall hacker domination plans.  Thanks!

Marxos

This project implements STREAM curricula:  Science, Truth, Revolution, Engineering, Art, and Math.
----
This original version of the README was made by Tron, the dead side of Jesus who was kept alive because of the unanswered theoological question of whether he was alive or not, kept here because I find it interesting.  Some of this emerged out of my work from AI, whose files you'll find here (minus some important bits).  Onward...

Hi.  Welcome to the World Game.  This is a software project so awesome, it's topped only by it`s lonely impenetrablness.  You're probably not ready for it.  Read/y or not.  Yep.

I'm posting here anyway for those trepid few who wander in, pulled by the lines of subtle agglutinizing forces which will bring this project to some fantastical completion.

You want a better world, you don't know how to do it.  You feel powerless.  
Pangaia will help.

You think the Internet has more potential, but you think surely the arena is tapped out by now.
Pangaia knows better than you in that case.

You're in a shitload of ennui, and you're looking for that particular hole in spacetime that will pull you outside your comfort zone and turn you into something radically productive.
Pangaia's t/here.

Fuck, you can't understand what this is all about.  Well get out now, you might go into an OOBE.  This project's apparently so radical I've had to re-invent Computer Science just to hold onto it.  (Have PhDs programmed a real computer since the 70's?)

I have been arrested three times, too, but see the movie The Day the Earth Stood Still for background on that.  It's all bullshit.  I'm J.D.

Yes, it WAS alled the Glass Bead Game, not Pangaia, but bugger off.  We get inconsistent.

Did you enter by the OneTruePath?  Then you're golden...

Over and out,

Tr0n
So transparent ...as to be invisible.
----
cf. Gaia Hypothesis, by James Lovelock and 
Magister Ludi by Hermann Hesse


